= Extraloop Redis Storage

== Description

Persistence layer for the {ExtraLoop}[https://github.com/afiore/extraloop] data extraction toolkit.
This module is implemented as a wrapper around {Ohm}[http://ohm.keyvalue.org], an object-hash mapping library which 
makes easy storing structured data into Redis. Includes a convinent command line tool that allows to 
list, filter, and delete harvested datasets, as well as exporting them on local files or remote data stores (i.e Google Fusion tables).

== Installation 

 gem install extraloop-redis-storage

== Usage

Extraloop's Redis storage module decorates <code>ExtraLoop::ScraperBase</code> and <code>ExtraLoop::IterativeScraper</code> instances 
with the +set_storage+ method: a helper method that allows to specify how the scraped data should be stored.

 require "extraloop/redis-storage"

 class AmazonReview < ExtraLoop::Storage::Record
   attribute :title
   attribute :rank
   attribute :date

   def validate
     assert (0..5).include?(rank.to_i), "Rank not in range"
   end
 end

 scraper = AmazonReviewScraper.new("0262560992").
   .set_storage(AmazonReview, "Amazon reviews of 'The Little Schemer'")
   .run()

At each scraper run, the ExtraLoop storage module internally instantiates a 
session (see <code>ExtraLoop::Storage::ScrapingSession</code>) and associates the extracted records to it.
The `AmazonReview` records just created, can now be accessed by calling the `#records` metod on scraper session object.

 reviews = scraper.session.records

=== #set_storage 

The +set_storage+ method accepts the following arguments:

* _model_ A Ruby constant or a symbol specifying the model to be used for storing the extracted data. If a symbol is passed, it is assumed that a model does not exist and the storage module dynamically generates one by subclassing <code>ExtraLoop::Storage::Record</code>. 
* _session_title_ A human readable title for the extracted dataset (optional).

== Command line interface 

Once installed, the gem will also add to your system path the +extraloop+ executable: a command line interface to the datasets harvested through ExtraLoop.
A list of datasets can be obtained by running:

 extraloop datastore list

This will generate a table like the following one:

  id | title                              | model           | records
 --------------------------------------------------------------------
  48 | 1330106699 GoogleNewsStory Dataset | GoogleNewsStory | 110    
  49 | 1330106948 AmazonReview Dataset    | AmazonReview    | 0      
  51 | 1330107087 GoogleNewsStory Dataset | GoogleNewsStory | 110    
  52 | 1330111630 AmazonReview Dataset    | AmazonReview    | 10     


Datasets can be removed using the +delete+ subcommand:

 extraloop datastore delete [id]

Where +id+ is either a single scraping session id, or a session id range (e.g. 48..52).

From the Redis datastore, ExtraLoop datasets can be exported to disk as CSV, JSON, or YAML documents:

  extraloop datastore export 51..52 -f csv

Similarly, stored datasets can be uploaded to a remote datastore:

  extraloop datastore push 51..48 fusion_tables -c google_username:password

While Google's Fusion Tables is currently the only one implemented, support for other remote datastores (e.g.
[couchDB](http://couchdb.apache.org/), , [cartoDB](http://cartodb.com) ), and [CKAN Webstore](http://wiki.ckan.org/Webstore) will be added soon.

